ID 45635.1

1. Oracle and RAID Levels.
--------------------------

This section is a discussion of the various RAID levels, their 
advantages and disadvantages, and their use with Oracle.


   1.1 RAID Levels.


     1.1.1 RAID 0: Striping with No Parity.

     RAID 0 offers striping only.  It is not redundant which means 
     it has no protection against drive failure.  It is simply a 
     collection of drives in a stripe configuration.

     During an I/O, a single drive gets chunk-size bytes of I/O 
     before the I/O continues onto the next drive in the set.  For 
     I/Os that fit in a single chunk, performance is the same as a 
     single disk drive.  For I/Os that span more than one chunk, 
     there may be a slight performance improvement since disks are 
     able to do a little work in parallel.

     RAID 0 is useful in reducing disk hot spots for Oracle data files.  
     It is generally not recommended for other Oracle files.


     1.1.2 RAID 1:  Shadowing.

     RAID 1 provides redundancy by duplicating an entire disk drive 
     onto another.  It provides complete protection against single 
     drive failures.  It is also the most expensive form of RAID,
     since it maintains entire copies of disk drives (sometimes  
     multiple copies.)

     During a read, any of the drives in the shadow set can be used.  
     During a write, all drives are eventually updated with the new data.

     When all drives are functioning, reads complete slightly faster 
     than a single disk read since the controller routes the read to 
     a free (not busy) disk.  Writes take slightly longer than a single 
     disk write.  Performance characteristics are not effected much 
     during a single drive failure.  In the worst case, performance 
     is equivalent to a single disk.

     RAID 1 is generally useful to Oracle if the $ cost is acceptable.  
     RAID 1 can be used for any Oracle file.  It is especially useful 
     for Oracle redo log files and control files; Oracle only has to 
     issue one redo log I/O, which saves code path and context switching.  
     The DBA/system administrator must use the RAID controller utilities
     to keep up with failed disks since the shadowing of the file is
     hidden from Oracle.


     1.1.3 RAID 0+1:  Striping and Shadowing.

     RAID 0+1 is often considered as a separate solution that offers 
     the reduced hot spot and performance benefits of striping (RAID 0) 
     and the redundancy of shadowing (RAID 1).  It is just as costly 
     as RAID 1.

     While RAID 0+1 can be used with Oracle data files, it should not 
     be used with redo log files.


     1.1.4 RAID 3:  Striping with Static Parity.

     RAID 3 attempts to give performance and redundancy of RAID 0+1 
     without the high cost associated with RAID 1's 1-for-1 drive 
     redundancy.  A number of drives are grouped together in a RAID 0 
     stripe set.  An additional drive is used to keep parity information 
     for the stripe set.

     During normal operation, RAID 3 gives performance similar to 
     RAID 0.  Reads are striped.  Writes require two I/Os; one for 
     the data drive, and one for the parity.  In the event of a single 
     disk failure, the set continues to function but at reduced performance.  
     Disk blocks from the missing disk are reconstructed by reading all 
     remaining drives in the set and the parity drive.  RAID vendors 
     typically include cache on-board the RAID controller to increase 
     performance.  Note that the parity disk in RAID 3 can be a performance 
     bottleneck, which is why most RAID vendors go with RAID 5.

     RAID 3 is useful for Oracle data files, but not for redo log files.


     1.1.5 RAID 5:  Striping with Rotating Parity.

     RAID 5 has similar performance and redundancy characteristics 
     as RAID 3, but the parity information is spread across all drives 
     which eliminates the parity drive as a bottleneck.

     RAID 5 is useful for Oracle data files, but not for redo log files.


   1.2 Summary:  Oracle and RAID Levels.

   Here is a summary of the various RAID levels and their use with Oracle.  
   The numbers in parentheses refer to the notes following the table.

                                                                     
     RAID  Type of RAID    Control     Database      Redo Log   Archive Log
                            File         File          File        File
     ----  ------------    -------     --------      --------   -----------                                                                  
      0    Striping         Avoid         OK          Avoid       Avoid
                                                                     
      1    Shadowing      Recommended     OK        Recommended  Recommended
                                                                     
     0+1   Striping +         OK      Recommended     Avoid       Avoid
           Shadowing                      (1)
                                                                     
      3    Striping with      OK          OK          Avoid       Avoid
           Static Parity
                                                                     
      5    Striping with      OK       Recommended    Avoid       Avoid
           Rotating Parity                (2)

   Notes:

   (1) RAID 0+1 is recommended for database files because this avoids    
       hot spots and gives the best possible performance during a disk 
       failure.  The disadvantage of RAID 0+1 is that it is a costly
       configuration.

   (2) RAID 5 is recommended for database files if RAID 0+1 is too 
       expensive.

